Itraconazole is a triazole agent prescribed for the treatment of fungal infections. It is predominantly metabolized by CYP3A4, resulting in the sequential formation of several metabolites, starting with the major metabolite hydroxy-itraconazole, followed by keto-itraconazole and N-desalkyl-itraconazole. All three metabolites are further metabolized by CYP3A4 and parent and metabolites are reported to competitively inhibit CYP3A4 ([Isoherranen 2004](#5-References)). Therefore, the metabolites inhibit their own formation and itraconazole inhibits further conversion of its metabolites by CYP3A4. Itraconazole has been proposed as one of the most appropriate CYP3A4 inhibitors for clinical DDI studies, to replace the currently no longer recommended CYP3A4 inhibitor drug ketoconazole.

The herein presented model represents an update of the itraconazole model publisdhed by Hanke *et al.* ([Hanke 2018](#5-References)). The model was originally established using various clinical studies, covering a dosing range from 100 to 200 mg in different formulations (solution and capsules), administered under fasted conditions or together with food. Although the plasma concentrations of keto-itraconazole and N-desalkyl-itraconazole are lower than those of itraconazole and hydroxy-itraconazole, N-desalkyl-itraconazole is reported to be a very potent inhibitor *in vitro*, and integration of the two further metabolites into the model with their inhibitory effects enabled the description the strong non-linearity and plasma accumulation of itraconazole. The model applies sequential metabolism of itraconazole to hydroxy-itraconazole to keto-itraconazole to N-desalkyl-itraconazole by CYP3A4, including competitive inhibition of CYP3A4 by the parent drug and all three metabolites, and glomerular filtration. Competitive inhibition of P-gp was included for itracaonazole.

In comparison to the published version by Hanke *et al.* 2018 ([Hanke 2018](#5-References)), the dissolution and solubility has been optimized and updated for the administration of itraconazole capsules in fasted state (by integrating additional data ([Jalava 1997](#5-References)) into the optimization routine).

The presented itraconazole PBPK model as well as the respective evaluation plan and PBPK report are provided open-source  (https://github.com/Open-Systems-Pharmacology/Itraconazole-model).

